---
layout: listing
title: Stanford University - Academic Technology Specialist, Department of Art and Art History and Department of Drama
link:
country: United States
subrEmail: mjockers@stanford.edu
organization: Stanford University 
date: 2003-09-30
closingDate: 
jobTitle: Academic Technology Specialist, Department of Art and Art History and Department of Drama
published: false
---


# {{ page.title }}

## Description


<p>(#003263). Range: 4P3</p>

<h3>Description</h3>
<p>Overview: The primary goals of the University--teaching, learning, and research--are centered on accumulation and distribution of information among faculty, staff, and students. Because of tremendous technological advances in information science during the past few years, it is essential that Stanford University faculty become conversant with the information resources at their disposal for use in the classroom and for their own research. The Department of Art and Art History and Department of Drama are two of several schools and departments selected to participate in a program that will provide Academic Technology Specialists (ATS) to assist faculty in basic tutorial and advanced development activities in the use of technology resources. The Department of Art and Art History offers courses of study in the history of art and in the practice of art (studio). The undergraduate program of the department is designed to introduce students to the humanistic study of the visual arts. The courses are intended to increase understanding of the meaning and purpose of the arts, their historical development, their role in society, and their relationship to other humanistic disciplines such as literature, music, and philosophy. The Department of Drama is intrinsically about the merger of theory and practice, mind and body, image and text. In that context, the department sees technology as an organic, logical extension of the teaching, performance, and scholarly practice contained therein. Since the mid-nineties, the department has been developing its technological capabilities toward this end. </p>

<p>The ATS will collaborate with faculty in supporting their teaching and research, devising and developing technological solutions for academic needs. Areas of support will include researching and developing web-based programs and multimedia databases, assisting in the development of streaming media for performance work, and teaching faculty how to best employ multimedia tools for use in their teaching and research. In addition to working with faculty, the ATS will devote up to eight hours per week in service to the Stanford University Libraries & Academic Information Resources. There s/he will assist the broader academic community, via consulting and training, in using technology relevant to education. </p>

<p>The incumbent will report to the Head of Faculty Support in Academic Computing within Stanford University Libraries/Academic Information Resources (SUL/AIR). S/he will be physically housed within the two departments in order to assure proximity and availability to faculty. The ATS will have a background in Art, Drama, or a related field and possess a fundamental understanding of the ideas that form the foundation of instruction in the fine arts in order to assist the faculty with the discipline-specific educational and research tools available and to disseminate knowledge of these tools through the departments. S/he must have some programming knowledge and experience in the development of academic technologies, be resourceful and creative in using current technologies, and demonstrate excellent organizational, instructional, and communication skills. S/he will have a proven record of developing technology solutions and teaching others how to employ these solutions. The ATS will actively encourage and support the use of educational and research technology. S/he must have a willingness and interest in working with faculty at different levels of technical experience and expertise. </p>

<h3>Responsibilities </h3>

<p>Specific responsibilities include: Advise the department on technical matters and provide leadership in technology. Initiating ideas, implementing solutions, and finding resources, both technical and domain-specific. Staying abreast of technological advances; testing and integrating those that foster learning and effective communication. Provide faculty with consulting and instruction on discipline-specific technology needs to help them acquire and use technology and information resources in their teaching and research. Recommend and assist with securing necessary hardware, software licenses, etc. Provide customized technical and pedagogical solutions to integrate resources into the curricula of individual faculty Assist faculty in developing curricula, course materials, and delivering courses in technology-based classrooms. Serving as a direct resource for, and facilitator in, gaining support and assistance with campus infrastructure applications. Consulting and collaborating with experts elsewhere in the University, making effective use of established solutions and investigating new ones. Work with faculty to assess the course-specific instructional technology needs; recommending commercially available software, providing consulting support to develop solutions which make use of current on-campus (e.g., CourseWork) or off-campus services that are available. Participate as a team member in Faculty Support Services in Meyer Library, providing consulting to faculty and colleagues when technical depth in subject area is needed. Assist faculty in writing the technology components of grant proposals. Assess technology-training needs for faculty and students, determine content, develop and teach formal training workshops, write training documentation. Provide design and development support of image (Embark/4D) and media database systems. Assess feasibility of using university-sponsored repositories as alternatives to in-house supported archives. Work with the Manager of the SUDAC to integrate and expand access to SUDAC for studio art courses. Work with the Art Librarian to facilitate expanded use of available library resources. Access and identify additional faculty and student needs that can be addressed via electronic resources. Collaborate with faculty on the development of the dpResearch on-line performance journal/gallery space. Review professional literature; attend conferences; network with colleagues within and outside of the University; participate in newsgroups and other forums to continually improve knowledge of academic technology. </p>

<h3>Qualifications</h3>
<p>The ideal candidate will have a record of innovation and creativity in making technology accessible, understandable, and appealing to an academic audience and demonstrated leadership and resourcefulness in identifying and integrating technological solutions to pedagogical and research needs. Specific qualifications include: A baccalaureate degree in Art, Drama, or a related field plus at least five years experience in academic computing and technology project management or the equivalent combination of education and experience. An advanced degree is desirable. Excellent teaching, communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to interact effectively and tactfully in oral and written communications with members of the academic community; experience working in an environment where colleagues have diverse backgrounds and customs. Experience teaching technology skills (including multimedia and database applications) to novice and expert computer users. Excellent time management and project management skills. Demonstrated experience managing projects and a complex workload, prioritizing tasks, and using good judgment in defining goals and objectives based on general strategic directions. A proven record of success in leading and implementing technology projects. Demonstrated ability to establish effective, on-going relationships with varied levels of a diverse faculty, staff, and student body. Demonstrated initiative in developing short and long-term plans, and translating programmatic issues into projects. Demonstrated experience applying technology in support of teaching and research. Familiarity with applications, resources and techniques used in teaching and research within the arts. Expert knowledge of Macintosh and Windows environments, and facility with UNIX. Experience with providing computing resources in a networked environment. Expert knowledge of digital imaging and web applications software such as Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft PowerPoint, Macromedia Dreamweaver and Fireworks. Experience developing multimedia projects. Experience developing Web sites using graphics, audio, and video resources, and demonstrated effectiveness in applying these technologies to learning and teaching. Desired qualifications include: Knowledge of database applications such as Microsoft Access, FileMaker Pro, 4D, and/or Oracle. Experience with image database applications, such as Canto Cumulus or Embark. Experience supporting faculty use of learning management systems, such as WebCT and Blackboard, for providing online course resources. Knowledge of and experience with digital video editing tools, such as iMovie, Final Cut Pro, or Discreet Cleaner. Experience with DVD authoring tools, such as iDVD or DVD Studio Pro, is desirable. Knowledge of and experience with a programming language (Perl, Java, C++) desirable. SUL/AIR AComp</p>
<p>To apply, visit <a href="http://jobs.stanford.edu/openings/display.cgi?Job_Req=003263&JFam=NIL">http://jobs.stanford.edu/openings/display.cgi?Job_Req=003263&JFam=NIL</a></p>
