---
layout: listing
title: Software Engineer, MIT Libraries
---

# Software Engineer, MIT Libraries

*  [Original Link](http://libraries.mit.edu/about/jobs/svac-software-engineer2.html)

The MIT Libraries are seeking an experienced, enthusiastic and self-motivated software engineer to join a group of developers that provides programming and software analysis support across the MIT Libraries. This position provides both general application development for library technical platforms and services, as well as specialized development for the MIT Geodata repository.

## Responsibilities
Reporting to the Head of Software Development and Analysis, the Software Engineer will be responsible for development work, from front-end web applications to back-end data management, for a variety of projects underway in the Libraries. An initial focus will be enhancing GIS software and systems that expand access to geodata through existing services and tools. S/he will work collaboratively with the Senior GIS Specialist, the Geospatial Data Librarian, and the Digital Library Systems Manager to investigate, define, recommend, and build new services around geodata. The Engineer will maintain up-to-date system documentation and manage code in a version-control system. S/he will also advise and consult with library technical and non-technical staff to provide GIS web development expertise and guidance.

As a member of the Software Development and Analysis Department, the Software Engineer will work with other software engineers in supporting the ongoing development of the MIT Libraries software infrastructure, including, but not limited to, institutional repositories (DSpace, and others), digital library collection management systems, digital archiving systems (e.g., Archivists’ Toolkit), and other digital library systems. S/he will collaborate with other technology partners both on and off-campus.

## Qualifications

Required: Bachelor’s degree. Three years of software development experience in a Unix/Linux environment. Demonstrated experience developing and maintaining web applications in a Java development environment (e.g., MVC, Tomcat/Jetty). Demonstrated proficiency in one or more of the following programming languages: Ruby, Python, PHP. Strong working knowledge of XML. Strong relational database experience in one or more of the following: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL. Proven ability to meet deadlines and manage competing priorities. Flexibility and a collaborative approach to innovation, problem solving, and working across organizational boundaries with librarian, faculty, and both technical and non-technical staff. Ability to be productive independently and to work successfully in a team environment within a culturally diverse community. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Preferred: Demonstrated experience with GIS APIs, tools, and platforms, such as ArcSDE, OpenLayers, and GeoServer is strongly preferred. Experience with distributed indexing technology (e.g., Apache Solr) and NoSQL data storage systems. Demonstrated experience designing, developing and/or consuming web services (e.g., XML, JSON). Demonstrated proficiency with Javascript and Javascript libraries/frameworks (e.g., jQuery). Familiarity with open source repository systems such as DSpace, Fedora, and affiliated projects and services such as DuraSpace. Experience working in a library or academic computing environment.

## SALARY AND BENEFITS
$65,000 minimum. Actual salary commensurate with qualifications and experience. MIT offers excellent benefits including a choice of health and retirement plans, a dental plan, and tuition assistance. The MIT Libraries afford a flexible and collegial working environment and foster professional growth of staff with management training and travel funding for professional meetings.

## APPLICATION PROCESS
Apply online at: [http://hrweb.mit.edu/staffing/](http://hrweb.mit.edu/staffing/). Please include cover letter, resume, and contact information for three references. Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until position is filled. MIT is strongly and actively committed to diversity within its community and particularly encourages applications from qualified women and minority candidates. Through a culture that encourages innovation and collaboration, the MIT Libraries are redefining the role of the 21st century library – making collections more accessible than ever before, and shaping the future of scholarly research. Library staff, at all levels, contribute to this spirit of innovation and to the mission of promoting learning, discovery and the advancement of knowledge at MIT and beyond. “Reinventing the Research Library: The MIT Libraries in the 21st Century” is a short video that looks at how the Libraries are expanding beyond their traditional role to shape 21st century research library --creating innovative services, reaching out to students and faculty, and leading efforts to increase global access to MIT’s scholarly work. The MIT Libraries support the Institute's programs of research and study with holdings of more than 2.9 million print volumes and 3.1 million special format items, and terabytes of MIT-owned digital content. In addition, rare special collections, Institute records, historical documents, and papers of noted faculty are held in the Institute Archives and Special Collections. Library resources and services are accessible to students and researchers through the Libraries’ website ([http://libraries.mit.edu/](http://libraries.mit.edu/)), and library spaces are widely available for both collaborative work and quiet study. Traditional library resources are supplemented by innovative services for bioinformatics, GIS, metadata, social science data, and research data management services, as well as multimedia facilities and services for video production, conferencing, webcasting and distance education. The Libraries utilize the Ex Libris Aleph system for its public Web-based catalog and as the support system for user service and processing functions. DSpace@MIT, a digital repository developed over the past ten years by the MIT Libraries, serves to capture, preserve and communicate the intellectual output of MIT's faculty and research community. Other MIT repositories include: Dome, a second DSpace instance, providing access to a sizable image collection and other digital collections owned by the MIT Libraries; the MIT Geodata Repository for a diverse collection of GIS Data; and MIT’s DataVerse for licensed social science datasets. MIT Libraries maintain memberships and affiliations in arXiv, Association of Research Libraries, the BorrowDirect group, the Boston Library Consortium, DDI Alliance, DuraSpace, HathiTrust, CLIR/Digital Library Federation, the Coalition of Networked Information, EDUCAUSE, North East Research Libraries, OCLC Research Library Partnership, ORCID, and Portico.