---
layout: listing
Title: Hendrix Postdoctoral Fellow in Digital Humanities and Pedagogy

# Postdoctoral Fellow in Digital Humanities and Pedagogy

*  [Original link](http://www.hendrix.edu/uploadedFiles/Campus_Resources/Human_Resources/Job_Openings/Postdoc%20Fellowship%20in%20Digital%20Humanities%20and%20Pedagogy.pdf)

## Description

The Postdoctoral Fellow in Digital Humanities and Pedagogy will work as a
catalyst for faculty innovation bridging learning resources, curricula, and
scholarly opportunity with appropriate academic technologies. The Fellow
will plan, promote, and implement strategies to encourage faculty discourse
about pedagogy, e-learning tools, and the integration of digital media into
teaching and scholarship. The Postdoctoral Fellow is a two-year academic
appointment reporting to the Chief Information Officer/Executive Vice
President. Depending upon credentials, the Postdoctoral Fellow may also be
affiliated with an academic department and will be assigned a mentor. The
Fellow is expected to commit approximately 50% of her or his time to
professional development, which may include teaching at the Fellow?s
discretion.

Application should include a letter, a curriculum vitae, three letters of
recommendation (including the phone numbers and email addresses of the
referees), and transcripts of all graduate and undergraduate work.
Application materials should be sent to the Postdoctoral Fellow in Digital
Humanities Position Search at Hendrix College, 1600 Washington Avenue,
Conway, AR 72032. Applications may also be sent via email to hr@hendrix.edu.  
The application deadline is **March 30, 2012.**

## About Hendrix
Hendrix is a distinguished liberal arts college with an endowment of $145
million, sheltering a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, located in Conway,
Arkansas, thirty miles from Little Rock at the foothills of the Ozark
Mountains. The College, related to the United Methodist Church, has a
strong commitment to excellence in teaching liberal arts. Hendrix is an
equal opportunity employer. Women and members of minority groups are
especially encouraged to apply. Please visit our website at www.hendrix.edu.
